security-privacy.md, before:

Questions from https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/

# 2. Questions to Consider

## 2.1. What information might this feature expose to Web sites or other parties, and for what purposes is that exposure necessary?

This feature intentionally reveals data contained in a local font to the Web site. Requesting a specific font can test for the existence of that font on a system, which can expose common fonts, fonts purchased from type foundries, or even custom fonts such as personal handwriting fonts.

In addition, the data returned in the tables can include metadata about the font, as well as the actual font contents.  Providing access to this information is necessary in order to correctly render text using the font.

Browsers currently provide for the use of local fonts, but not table access. For example, the CSS `font-family` property can be used to request the use of a local font by name. If the font is not available, the browser will provide a fallback. Through the use of measurement APIs, it is usually possible to determine if the requested font or a fallback was used. Given a dictionary of font names, this can be used to determine which are available on a user's system.

The feature will require the user to grant permission before providing the data to a site.

## 2.2. Is this specification exposing the minimum amount of information necessary to power the feature?

The feature exposes font data for a given font. From this information, an application may be able to detect the font's presence on a system, read the font's metadata, or access the font's core data used for rendering. Some of these properties would also be available indirectly e.g. through measurement APIs.

## 2.3. How does this specification deal with personal information or personally-identifiable information or information derived thereof?

There are services which create fonts based on handwriting samples. If these fonts are given names including personally identifiable information (e.g. "Alice's Handwriting Font"), then personally identifiable information would be made available. This may not be apparent to users if the information is included as properties within the font, not just the font name.

User agents should make the risks of granting the permission clear to users.

## 2.4. How does this specification deal with sensitive information?

Fonts installed on particular operating system versions could reveal information about the user's location.

Fonts may be installed by particular applications installed on the system, for example office suites. This could allow identifying the other applications on the system.

Users from a particular organization could have specific fonts installed. Employees of "Example Co." could all have an "Example Corporate Typeface" installed by their system administrator, which would allow distinguishing users of a site as employees.

User agents should make the risks of granting the permission clear to users.

## 2.5. Does this specification introduce new state for an origin that persists across browsing sessions?

Yes, user agents could persist the `local-fonts` permission grant, but at least in the Chrome implementation, this permission grant will only be persistent for installed PWAs. The drive-by web will only have enough state to allow it to re-prompt for access, but the access itself won't be persistent.

Furthermore, the user will be able to revoke permission to clear the state that was persisted, similarly to how other permissions work.

## 2.6. What information from the underlying platform, e.g. configuration data, is exposed by this specification to an origin?

Font table access provides overall access to the raw data stored in a font's tables.  This information includes all of the information about a specific font, including:

* The presence or absence of the font on a system, or whether the font is at least not available in a given User Agent
* Metadata contained in a font's tables, including its various names, color and variability data, and copyright information
* The raw table data used in OpenType fonts (e.g. the cmap table, etc)
* The raw table data used in TrueType or CFF fonts (e.g. 'CFF2' or 'glyf' tables, etc)
* Any other valid tables contained in the font beyond what may be required for traditional font rendering

From this information, it may be possible to identify the operating system and version and potentially some installed applications.

## 2.7. Does this specification allow an origin access to sensors on a user’s device

No.

## 2.8. What data does this specification expose to an origin? Please also document what data is identical to data exposed by other features, in the same or different contexts.

The data described above is exposed to script, which can then transmit it to the origin.

## 2.9. Does this specification enable new script execution/loading mechanisms?

No.

## 2.10. Does this specification allow an origin to access other devices?

No.

## 2.11. Does this specification allow an origin some measure of control over a user agent’s native UI?

No. (Other than potentially triggering the display of a permission prompt.)

## 2.12. What temporary identifiers might this this specification create or expose to the web?

None.

## 2.13. How does this specification distinguish between behavior in first-party and third-party contexts?

A user agent may decline to grant permissions requested by third-party contexts. Cooperating origins could work around this limitation via `postMessage()`.

## 2.14. How does this specification work in the context of a user agent’s Private Browsing or "incognito" mode?

The user agent could automatically deny the permission request. The user agent could also grant the permission request, but provide "anonymous" data, e.g. a fixed set of fonts, rather than enumerating the actual local fonts.

## 2.15. Does this specification have a "Security Considerations" and "Privacy Considerations" section?

TBD.

## 2.16. Does this specification allow downgrading default security characteristics?

No.

## 2.17. What should this questionnaire have asked?



# 3. Threat Models

## 3.1 Passive Network Attackers

## 3.2 Active Network Attackers

## 3.3 Same-Origin Policy Violations

## 3.4 Third-Party Tracking

## 3.5 Legitimate Misuse

Commit message:

security-privacy: Incognito updates
Capture more of the complex issues related to incognito mode.

(Based on feedback from Daniel Vogelheim)

security-privacy.md, after:

Questions from https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/

# 2. Questions to Consider

## 2.1. What information might this feature expose to Web sites or other parties, and for what purposes is that exposure necessary?

This feature intentionally reveals data contained in a local font to the Web site. Requesting a specific font can test for the existence of that font on a system, which can expose common fonts, fonts purchased from type foundries, or even custom fonts such as personal handwriting fonts.

In addition, the data returned in the tables can include metadata about the font, as well as the actual font contents.  Providing access to this information is necessary in order to correctly render text using the font.

Browsers currently provide for the use of local fonts, but not table access. For example, the CSS `font-family` property can be used to request the use of a local font by name. If the font is not available, the browser will provide a fallback. Through the use of measurement APIs, it is usually possible to determine if the requested font or a fallback was used. Given a dictionary of font names, this can be used to determine which are available on a user's system.

The feature will require the user to grant permission before providing the data to a site.

## 2.2. Is this specification exposing the minimum amount of information necessary to power the feature?

The feature exposes font data for a given font. From this information, an application may be able to detect the font's presence on a system, read the font's metadata, or access the font's core data used for rendering. Some of these properties would also be available indirectly e.g. through measurement APIs.

## 2.3. How does this specification deal with personal information or personally-identifiable information or information derived thereof?

There are services which create fonts based on handwriting samples. If these fonts are given names including personally identifiable information (e.g. "Alice's Handwriting Font"), then personally identifiable information would be made available. This may not be apparent to users if the information is included as properties within the font, not just the font name.

User agents should make the risks of granting the permission clear to users.

## 2.4. How does this specification deal with sensitive information?

Fonts installed on particular operating system versions could reveal information about the user's location.

Fonts may be installed by particular applications installed on the system, for example office suites. This could allow identifying the other applications on the system.

Users from a particular organization could have specific fonts installed. Employees of "Example Co." could all have an "Example Corporate Typeface" installed by their system administrator, which would allow distinguishing users of a site as employees.

User agents should make the risks of granting the permission clear to users.

## 2.5. Does this specification introduce new state for an origin that persists across browsing sessions?

Yes, user agents could persist the `local-fonts` permission grant, but at least in the Chrome implementation, this permission grant will only be persistent for installed PWAs. The drive-by web will only have enough state to allow it to re-prompt for access, but the access itself won't be persistent.

Furthermore, the user will be able to revoke permission to clear the state that was persisted, similarly to how other permissions work.

## 2.6. What information from the underlying platform, e.g. configuration data, is exposed by this specification to an origin?

Font table access provides overall access to the raw data stored in a font's tables.  This information includes all of the information about a specific font, including:

* The presence or absence of the font on a system, or whether the font is at least not available in a given User Agent
* Metadata contained in a font's tables, including its various names, color and variability data, and copyright information
* The raw table data used in OpenType fonts (e.g. the cmap table, etc)
* The raw table data used in TrueType or CFF fonts (e.g. 'CFF2' or 'glyf' tables, etc)
* Any other valid tables contained in the font beyond what may be required for traditional font rendering

From this information, it may be possible to identify the operating system and version and potentially some installed applications.

## 2.7. Does this specification allow an origin access to sensors on a user’s device

No.

## 2.8. What data does this specification expose to an origin? Please also document what data is identical to data exposed by other features, in the same or different contexts.

The data described above is exposed to script, which can then transmit it to the origin.

## 2.9. Does this specification enable new script execution/loading mechanisms?

No.

## 2.10. Does this specification allow an origin to access other devices?

No.

## 2.11. Does this specification allow an origin some measure of control over a user agent’s native UI?

No. (Other than potentially triggering the display of a permission prompt.)

## 2.12. What temporary identifiers might this this specification create or expose to the web?

None.

## 2.13. How does this specification distinguish between behavior in first-party and third-party contexts?

A user agent may decline to grant permissions requested by third-party contexts. Cooperating origins could work around this limitation via `postMessage()`.

## 2.14. How does this specification work in the context of a user agent’s Private Browsing or "incognito" mode?

Some possibilities for incognito-specific behaviors have been considered:

* The user agent could automatically deny the permission request.
* The user agent could grant the permission request, but provide "anonymous" data, e.g. a fixed set of fonts, rather than providing access to the actual local fonts.

While eliminating the ability for accessing local fonts, these choices can unintentionally expose that the user is in incognito mode.  For example,
automatically rejecting may indicate to a web page that, while a given UA normally supports the API, the rejection may hint that the UA has turned
off the API due to being in incognito mode.

Many permission-based web capabilities are exposed in incognito mode, so there's precedent that capabilities themselves are not problematic in incognito mode.  Other capabilities
can identify the user (e.g. file upload) which also aren't limited by incognito mode.  Finally, eliminating capabilities from incognito mode reduces incognito mode's usefulness,
which itself could impact the value of that feature.  Based on this, an incognito mode session is most likely best served by continuing to offer these local font access APIs.

## 2.15. Does this specification have a "Security Considerations" and "Privacy Considerations" section?

TBD.

## 2.16. Does this specification allow downgrading default security characteristics?

No.

## 2.17. What should this questionnaire have asked?



# 3. Threat Models

## 3.1 Passive Network Attackers

## 3.2 Active Network Attackers

## 3.3 Same-Origin Policy Violations

## 3.4 Third-Party Tracking

## 3.5 Legitimate Misuse
